@author daicoden

Braid - The Untold Tale
=======================

After I finished [Braid](http://playgreenhouse.com/game/NNONE-000001-01/) I was jubilant from the puzzle experience and happily perplexed with the meaning of the story.  I spent the next few hours surfing for some explanations.  Braid is my type of story where there is enough room for a little debate, but in the end there is also enough information to support conclusions.  I think enough people have gone through the text in the story so I won't rehash anything here, but I would like to talk about a few discrepancies I had, and then a section that I think was severely missed.

My only real conflict with the analysis I read is the part about the description of Tim searching for the princess in the epilog, "He cut rats into pieces to examine their brains, implanted tungsten posts into the skulls of water-starved monkeys."  People concluded this paragraph was about how Tim was a scientist [references] and went along with the Trinity epilog section.  The beginning part of the passage does talk about using scientific means, "He worked his ruler and his compass. He inferred. He deduced..." but by the end he was using a form of [extispicy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extispicy) an evil method of divination.  This bridges the gap between the candy story, and the Trinity story by showing that Tim has grown into a man who was willing to do anything to accomplish his current obsession, no thanks to his mother!

The alternate explanation comes from the point of view of the Princess, "'I am here,' she said. 'I am here. I want to touch you.' She pleaded: 
'Look at me!'" which in this case is not any single person, event or metaphor in particular, but adopts the tone of some of the caring women in his life, and brings me to some of the nuances I thought interesting but not directly in the text.  The pleading voice is from someone who cares for him and does not want him to do these evil things to accomplish his goals.  Tim is the sort of person who had very passionate love because women mistook his obsessions for passion.  As soon as he had followed his obsession to the end it was off to find a new one, which leeds into some of the parts of the story that talk of real women as the princess and can be read about elsewhere.

This brings me to the gameplay, and the stars.  I had a few thoughts while I was playing the game such as people tried to use Tim to get ahead, and thoroughly enjoyed it, from the depiction of how determined the Gumba's looked as they stepped on Tim.  However, Tim was happy to allow that to happen as long as it accomplished his goal.  In the same note, after you have played the game and understand that Tim was a monster I felt bad jumping on the Gumbas.  Look at how miserable they look as you squash them to accomplish your goals!   Hell, if you check out the [game page](http://braid-game.com/) the Gumbas have tears in their eyes! Also notice that this is how Tim chose to perceive people in his retrospective no life.  The only people who got a human form were the Princess, and the Knight blocking his path.  I won't try to support this too thoroughly because I think the argument can easily be mad that Gumbas were just a puzzle mechanic, but with all the thought that went into the game I would bet money that they had a development meeting where Jonathan Blow came in and said, "No no, the Gumbas need to be miserable when they die, miserable I tell you...".

The stars however, I think have been thoroughly unexplored and under-appreciated. People have complained asking, "Why on earth would you make a star that requires you to sit on a cloud for two hours?" [references] Well my friend, you missed the point of the stars.  It is that ridiculous length that you have to go to which gives the stars meaning.  So you have waited 2 hours on a cloud, done some ridicules conniving tricks, gone on the internet and found out how other people got the stars and now you have them, for what?  For completion of the game?  I can't find the source but I read someone saying Jonathan Blow went to far in doing this and caused pain to the people who do this stuff for a sense of completion.  Well my friend, that's the point.  What fools we were to waste our time, it was meaningless but we had to complete the game.  Sounds hauntingly like anyone we know?  To those of you who got the stars and saw the princess chained in the sky and thought, "Ha, touche." I say, it was a good game wasn't it?  And to those of you who said, "What? How do I get the princess now? Why is she still shackled? This isn't fair!" I say, I'm sorry you didn't enjoy the game, Tim.

-To fit in somewhere

Tim was an inactive monster.  He did not live a particular evil life, though he did some bad things to accomplish his goals, he really didn't hurt anyone but this makes him no less a monster.  Some people might say that the Atomic Bomb was evil, but that is more opinion than black and white good vs evil and I claim Tim was pure evil.  If one of his obsessions required Tim dropping the atomic bomb on someone he would have.  He is the most dangerous type of person, resourceful, intelligent, and unaffected by the ramifications of his actions if his obsession is in the way. It is humankind's fortune that his obsessions never took him in a direction where he caused real harm to anyone.  Tim, the dormant monster.


References
----------
[1] http://www.bardinelli.com/blog/?p=1238
[2] 